.TH ALACRITTY "1" "August 2018" "alacritty 0.2.9" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
alacritty \- a cross-platform, gpu-accelerated terminal emulator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
alacritty [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Alacritty is a terminal emulator with a strong focus on simplicity and
performance. It's cross-platform, and powered by the GPU. Alacritty comes with
sane defaults, and many aspects of the terminal are configurable.
.PP
Alacritty is still beta quality software. You may find missing features or
bugs, please report any issues to https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues
.SH "FLAGS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints help information
.TP
\fB\-\-live\-config\-reload\fR
Enable automatic config reloading
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-live\-config\-reload\fR
Disable automatic config reloading
.TP
\fB\-\-persistent\-logging\fR
Keep the log file after quitting Alacritty
.HP
\fB\-\-print\-events\fR
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Reduces the level of verbosity (the min level is \fB\-qq\fR)
.TP
\fB\-\-ref\-test\fR
Generates ref test
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Increases the level of verbosity (the max level is \fB\-vvv\fR)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints version information
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-class\fR <class>
Defines the window class on X11 [default: Alacritty]
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-command\fR <command>...
Command and args to execute (must be last argument)
.HP
\fB\-\-config\-file\fR <config\-file>
.IP
Specify alternative configuration file [default: $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/alacritty/alacritty.yml]
.HP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dimensions\fR <columns> <lines>
.IP
Defines the window dimensions. Falls back to size specified by window manager if set to 0x0 [default: 0x0]
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-title\fR <title>
Defines the window title [default: Alacritty]
.TP
\fB\-\-working\-directory\fR <working\-directory>
Start the shell in the specified working directory
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the alacritty github repository at https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty for the full documentation.
.SH "BUGS"
Found a bug? Please report it at https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Maintainers:
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Joe Wilm <joe@jwilm.com>
