CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Alacritty

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Alacritty!

Table of Contents:

1. [Feature Requests](#feature-requests)
2. [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
3. [Patches / Pull Requests](#patches--pull-requests)
    1. [Testing](#testing)
    2. [Performance](#performance)
    3. [Documentation](#documentation)
    4. [Style](#style)
4. [Release Process](#release-process)
5. [Contact](#contact)

## Feature Requests

Feature requests should be reported in the
[Alacritty issue tracker](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues). To reduce the number of
duplicates, please make sure to check the existing
[enhancement](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+label%3Aenhancement)
and
[missing feature](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+label%3A%22B+-+missing+feature%22)
issues.

## Bug Reports

Bug reports should be reported in the
[Alacritty issue tracker](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues).

If a bug was not present in a previous version of Alacritty, providing the exact commit which
introduced the regression helps out a lot.

## Patches / Pull Requests

All patches have to be sent on Github as [pull requests](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/pulls).

If you are looking for a place to start contributing to Alacritty, take a look at the
[help wanted](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22)
and
[easy](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22D+-+easy%22)
issues.

Please note that the minimum supported version of Alacritty is Rust 1.36.0. All patches are expected
to work with the minimum supported version.

### Testing

To make sure no regressions were introduced, all tests should be run before sending a pull request.
The following command can be run to test Alacritty:

```
cargo test
```

Additionally if there's any functionality included which would lend itself to additional testing,
new tests should be added. These can either be in the form of Rust tests using the `#[test]`
annotation, or Alacritty's ref tests.

To record a new ref test, a release version of the patched binary should be created and run with the
`--ref-test` flag. After closing the Alacritty window, or killing it (`exit` and `^D` do not work),
some new files should have been generated in the working directory. Those can then be copied to the
`./tests/ref/NEW_TEST_NAME` directory and the test can be enabled by editing the `ref_tests!` macro
in the `./tests/ref.rs` file. When fixing a bug, it should be checked that the ref test does not
complete correctly with the unpatched version, to make sure the test case is covered properly.

### Performance

Alacritty mainly uses the [vtebench](https://github.com/jwilm/vtebench) tool for testing Alacritty's
performance. Any change which could have an impact on Alacritty's performance, should be tested with
it to prevent potential regressions.

### Documentation

Code should be documented where appropriate. The existing code can be used as a guidance here and
the general `rustfmt` rules can be followed for formatting.

If any change has been made to the `config.rs` file, these changes should also be documented in the
example configuration file `alacritty.yml`.

Changes compared to the latest Alacritty release which have a direct effect on the user (opposed to
things like code refactorings or documentation/tests) additionally need to be documented in the
`CHANGELOG.md`. The existing entries should be used as a style guideline. The change log should be
used to document changes from a user-perspective, instead of explaining the technical background
(like commit messages). More information about Alacritty's change log format can be found
[here](https://keepachangelog.com).

### Style

All Alacritty changes are automatically verified by CI to conform to its rustfmt guidelines. If a CI
build is failing because of formatting issues, you can install rustfmt using `rustup component add
rustfmt` and then format all code using `cargo fmt`.

# Release Process

Alacritty's release process aims to provide stable and well tested releases without having to hold
back new features during the testing period.

To achieve these goals, a new branch is created for every new release. Both the release candidates
and the final version are only comitted and tagged in this branch. The master branch only tracks
development versions, allowing us to keep the branches completely separate without merging releases
back into master.

The exact steps for an exemplary `1.2.3` might look like this:
 1. Initially, the version on the latest master is `1.2.3-dev`
 2. A new `v1.2.3` branch is created for the release
 3. On master, the version is bumped to `1.2.4-dev`
 4. In the branch, the version is bumped to `1.2.3-rc1`
 5. The new commit in the branch is tagged as `1.2.3-rc1`
 6. A release is created for the `1.2.3-rc1` tag
 7. The changelog since the last release (stable or RC) is added
 8. Repeat steps 4-7 until no major issues are fond in the release candidates
 9. In the branch, the version is bumped to `1.2.3`
 10. The new commit in the branch is tagged as `1.2.3`
 11. A release is created for the `1.2.3` tag
 12. The changelog since the last stable release (**not** RC) is added

# Contact

If there are any outstanding questions about contributing to Alacritty, they can be asked on the
[Alacritty issue tracker](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues).

As a more immediate and direct form of communication, the Alacritty IRC channel (`#alacritty` on
Freenode) can be used to contact many of the Alacritty contributors.

Commit message:

Add explanation of cherry-picking process

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Alacritty

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Alacritty!

Table of Contents:

1. [Feature Requests](#feature-requests)
2. [Bug Reports](#bug-reports)
3. [Patches / Pull Requests](#patches--pull-requests)
    1. [Testing](#testing)
    2. [Performance](#performance)
    3. [Documentation](#documentation)
    4. [Style](#style)
4. [Release Process](#release-process)
5. [Contact](#contact)

## Feature Requests

Feature requests should be reported in the
[Alacritty issue tracker](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues). To reduce the number of
duplicates, please make sure to check the existing
[enhancement](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+label%3Aenhancement)
and
[missing feature](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+label%3A%22B+-+missing+feature%22)
issues.

## Bug Reports

Bug reports should be reported in the
[Alacritty issue tracker](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues).

If a bug was not present in a previous version of Alacritty, providing the exact commit which
introduced the regression helps out a lot.

## Patches / Pull Requests

All patches have to be sent on Github as [pull requests](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/pulls).

If you are looking for a place to start contributing to Alacritty, take a look at the
[help wanted](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22help+wanted%22)
and
[easy](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22D+-+easy%22)
issues.

Please note that the minimum supported version of Alacritty is Rust 1.36.0. All patches are expected
to work with the minimum supported version.

### Testing

To make sure no regressions were introduced, all tests should be run before sending a pull request.
The following command can be run to test Alacritty:

```
cargo test
```

Additionally if there's any functionality included which would lend itself to additional testing,
new tests should be added. These can either be in the form of Rust tests using the `#[test]`
annotation, or Alacritty's ref tests.

To record a new ref test, a release version of the patched binary should be created and run with the
`--ref-test` flag. After closing the Alacritty window, or killing it (`exit` and `^D` do not work),
some new files should have been generated in the working directory. Those can then be copied to the
`./tests/ref/NEW_TEST_NAME` directory and the test can be enabled by editing the `ref_tests!` macro
in the `./tests/ref.rs` file. When fixing a bug, it should be checked that the ref test does not
complete correctly with the unpatched version, to make sure the test case is covered properly.

### Performance

Alacritty mainly uses the [vtebench](https://github.com/jwilm/vtebench) tool for testing Alacritty's
performance. Any change which could have an impact on Alacritty's performance, should be tested with
it to prevent potential regressions.

### Documentation

Code should be documented where appropriate. The existing code can be used as a guidance here and
the general `rustfmt` rules can be followed for formatting.

If any change has been made to the `config.rs` file, these changes should also be documented in the
example configuration file `alacritty.yml`.

Changes compared to the latest Alacritty release which have a direct effect on the user (opposed to
things like code refactorings or documentation/tests) additionally need to be documented in the
`CHANGELOG.md`. The existing entries should be used as a style guideline. The change log should be
used to document changes from a user-perspective, instead of explaining the technical background
(like commit messages). More information about Alacritty's change log format can be found
[here](https://keepachangelog.com).

### Style

All Alacritty changes are automatically verified by CI to conform to its rustfmt guidelines. If a CI
build is failing because of formatting issues, you can install rustfmt using `rustup component add
rustfmt` and then format all code using `cargo fmt`.

# Release Process

Alacritty's release process aims to provide stable and well tested releases without having to hold
back new features during the testing period.

To achieve these goals, a new branch is created for every new release. Both the release candidates
and the final version are only comitted and tagged in this branch. The master branch only tracks
development versions, allowing us to keep the branches completely separate without merging releases
back into master.

The exact steps for an exemplary `1.2.3` might look like this:
 1. Initially, the version on the latest master is `1.2.3-dev`
 2. A new `v1.2.3` branch is created for the release
 3. On master, the version is bumped to `1.2.4-dev`
 4. In the branch, the version is bumped to `1.2.3-rc1`
 5. The new commit in the branch is tagged as `1.2.3-rc1`
 6. A release is created for the `1.2.3-rc1` tag
 7. The changelog since the last release (stable or RC) is added
 8. Cherry-pick bug fixes from master into the branch and repeat steps 4-8
        until no major issues are found in the release candidate
 9. In the branch, the version is bumped to `1.2.3`
 10. The new commit in the branch is tagged as `1.2.3`
 11. A release is created for the `1.2.3` tag
 12. The changelog since the last stable release (**not** RC) is added

# Contact

If there are any outstanding questions about contributing to Alacritty, they can be asked on the
[Alacritty issue tracker](https://github.com/jwilm/alacritty/issues).

As a more immediate and direct form of communication, the Alacritty IRC channel (`#alacritty` on
Freenode) can be used to contact many of the Alacritty contributors.
