.TH ALACRITTY "1" "August 2018" "alacritty 0.4.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
alacritty \- a cross-platform, gpu-accelerated terminal emulator
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
alacritty [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Alacritty is a terminal emulator with a strong focus on simplicity and
performance. With such a strong focus on performance, included features are
carefully considered and you can always expect Alacritty to be blazingly fast.
By making sane choices for defaults, Alacritty requires no additional setup.
However, it does allow configuration of many aspects of the terminal.
.SH "FLAGS"
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Prints help information
.TP
\fB\-\-hold\fR
Remain open after child process exits
.TP
\fB\-\-live\-config\-reload\fR
Enable automatic config reloading
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-live\-config\-reload\fR
Disable automatic config reloading
.TP
\fB\-\-persistent\-logging\fR
Keep the log file after quitting Alacritty
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-events\fR
Print all events to stdout
.TP
\fB\-q\fR
Reduces the level of verbosity (the min level is \fB\-qq\fR)
.TP
\fB\-\-ref\-test\fR
Generates ref test
.TP
\fB\-v\fR
Increases the level of verbosity (the max level is \fB\-vvv\fR)
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Prints version information
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-\-class\fR [ <instance> | <instance>,<general> ]
Defines the window class hint on Linux [default: Alacritty,Alacritty ]
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-command\fR <command>...
Command and args to execute (must be last argument)
.TP
\fB\-\-config\-file\fR <config\-file>
Specify alternative configuration file

Alacritty looks for the configuration file at the following paths:
    1. $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/alacritty/alacritty.yml
    2. $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/alacritty.yml
    3. $HOME/.config/alacritty/alacritty.yml
    4. $HOME/.alacritty.yml

On Windows, the configuration file is located at %APPDATA%\\alacritty\\alacritty.yml.
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-dimensions\fR <columns> <lines>
Defines the window dimensions. Falls back to size specified by window manager if set to 0x0 [default: 0x0]
.TP
\fB\-\-position\fR <x-pos> <y-pos>
Defines the window position. Falls back to position specified by window manager if unset [default: unset]
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-title\fR <title>
Defines the window title [default: Alacritty]
.TP
\fB\-\-embed\fR <parent>
Defines the X11 window ID (as a decimal integer) to embed Alacritty within
.TP
\fB\-\-working\-directory\fR <working\-directory>
Start the shell in the specified working directory
.SH "SEE ALSO"
See the alacritty github repository at https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty for the full documentation.
.SH "BUGS"
Found a bug? Please report it at https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty/issues.
.SH "AUTHORS"
Maintainers:
.sp
.RS 4
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
.el \{\
.sp -1
.IP \(bu 2.3
.\}
Christian Duerr <contact@christianduerr.com>
.sp
.ie n \{\
\h'-04'\(bu\h'+03'\c
.\}
Joe Wilm <joe@jwilm.com>
